Al jazu senior political analyst Maran
Bashar is joining us now in the studio
one of the fundamental elements of the
case that the Israeli uh representatives
were putting forward this morning was
the degree to which that Israel was
apparently supplying humanitarian Aid
into Gaza one of them described it as a
flood yes
um you know it's uh in in in a kind of a
theater of the Absurd this would be very
funny I mean it's actually comical but
then it's
tragic um if I had a chance to capture
that moment and frame it I would put it
in my office for eternity this is what
media is is made for in order to capture
those moments expose them for what they
are the lies of power right and that's
why power needs to be questioned all the
time you had these two kind of you know
uh Grim characters appearing in the
international quarter
Justice making a defenseless
defense uh
indefensible uh of Israel and making
such claims
that
everybody in the world knows to be false
everybody in the world why do I say
everybody in the world because even
Israel's
allies think it's false otherwise why
would the Americans build a floating
Port of the Gaza cost if Israel is
flooding uh Gaza with Aid why would the
um the wife of former Senator McCain a
Republican senator a great friend of
Israel she is a great friend of Israel
but she's now the director or the head
of the world uh food program why would
she talk about famine in Gaza right why
would the Europeans talk about famine in
Gaza I'm talking about Israel's friends
in Europe Germany France and so on so
forth so so basically everyone knows
we just heard from the UN in your own
report earlier that Israel is closing in
on on on Gaza Israel is is blocking aid
from reaching Gaza the Americans have
pleaded with the netan government to
allow Aid to Gaza so despite all the
testimony despite all the images despite
all the
reporting all the facts all the UN
documents and still you would have an
Israeli bureaucrat right come out and
say we are
flooding
Gaza and it's worth mentioning that when
she came to the end of her her
presentation there was a woman in the
gallery who shouted out liar at which
point the feed uh was cut so even in the
the icj itself there were members of the
public who were not being convinced by
what was being said but these things are
very often fairly dry fairly uh as you
say bureaucratic in their approach we've
seen a different approach from Israel at
the United Nation ations talk to us
through what you see is the different
different ways that Israel is
representing itself in the um
International court of justice compared
to the United Nations so this is the
thing right I mean if I could uh use any
kind of analogy or metaphor it would be
that was the circus right at the United
Nations with the Israeli Ambassador
doing his
acrobatics rude
obnoxious HPA like acrobatics and at the
icj it was more of the theater of the
Absurd just lie after lie after lie
after lie just you know series of lies
that easily debunked easily contradicted
easily argued against and so on not
convincing it is interesting though that
the Israeli Ambassador at the United
Nations is
cocky the Israeli delegation the icj is
koi cocki versus koi why why are they
koi here and cocky there I think because
the icj
matters not because the icj is going to
liberate Palestine or in the war in Gaza
or uh force a ceasefire on Israel
because you can do whatever you might do
at the United Nations and basically the
end of the day there's America and it
can block any action at the icj it's
about the moral and the legal standing
and if the
icj does take the position that there
needs to be
provisional steps against Israel that
Israel is plausibly again carrying
genocide Israel cannot withstand that
but the same quickly that's why the SEC
is also important because once you start
calling those generals and at any
criminals this is will not go away M
Bashar thank you very much
indeed make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer